# Disaster Responses
These are the responses for different types of disaster

Avalanches
Move out of the path of the avalanche (probably to the side).
Grab something sturdy to stay in one place.
Don't sink in the snow, try to swim upwards.
Hold one arm up so that rescuers can find you more easily.
If you do get buried, stay calm and try to make room to breathe. anic can shorten the time your air lasts for.

Landslides
If you're inside, go to the place furthest from the oncoming landslide, then hide under a strong table or bench and hold on.
If you're outside, move out of the path of the landslide (probably to the side). If you can't escape, curl into a ball and protect your head.

Earthquakes
Avoid things that could fall on you.
Drop to your hands and knees, cover your head and neck with your hands, and crawl to cover.
Beware slopes, cliffs, or mountains as rockslides are possible.
Expect Aftershocks.

Volcanic eruptions
Avoid areas downstream or downwind of the eruption.
Take temporary shelter from volcanic ash where you are if you have enough supplies. Cover ventilation openings and seal doors and windows.
If you are going outside, use a facemask if at all possible to protect yourself from ash.
Avoid driving during heavy ashfall.

Floods
If told to evacuate, do so immediately. Never drive around barricades. Local responders use them to safely direct traffic out of flooded areas.
Do not walk, swim, or drive through flood waters. 
Stay off bridges over fast-moving water. Fast-moving water can wash bridges away without warning.
If trapped in a building, then go to its highest level. Do not climb into a closed attic. You may become trapped by rising floodwater. Go on the roof only if necessary. Once there, signal for help.

Tsunami/Tidal Wave
Tsunamis are often caused by earthquakes, if you are experiencing an earthquake please see that section.
If you are inside of a tsunami hazard zone, evacuate to higher ground.
If you are outside of a tsunami hazard zone, stay where you are unless specifically told not to.
Leave immediately if you are told to do so. Evacuation routes are often marked by a wave with an arrow in the direction of higher ground.
If you are in the water, then grab onto something that floats, such as a raft, tree trunk, or door.
If you are in a boat, then face the direction of the waves and head out to sea. If you are in a harbor, then go inland.

Blizzards
Stay off roads if at all possible.
Limit your time outside. If you need to go outside, then wear layers of warm clothing. Watch for signs of frostbite and hypothermia.
Avoid carbon monoxide poisoning. Only use generators and grills outdoors and away from windows. Never heat your home with a gas stovetop or oven.
Signs of frostbite include: Numbness, white or grayish-yellow skin, firm or waxy skin.
What to do: Go to a warm room. Soak in warm water. Use body heat to warm. Do not massage or use a heating pad.
Signs of hypothermia include: Shivering, exhaustion, confusion, fumbling hands, memory loss, slurred speech, or drowsiness.
What to do: Go to a warm room. Warm the center of the body first—chest, neck, head, and groin. Keep dry and wrapped up in warm blankets, including the head and neck.

Hurricane/Cyclone/tropical cyclone/typhoon
If told to evacuate, do so immediately. Do not drive around barricades.
If trapped in a building by flooding, go to the highest level of the building. Do not climb into a closed attic. You may become trapped by rising flood water. (Also, see flood)
Use a generator or other gasoline-powered machinery outdoors ONLY and away from windows.
Do not walk, swim, or drive through flood waters. Turn Around. Don’t Drown! Just six inches of fast-moving water can knock you down, and one foot of moving water can sweep your vehicle away.

Droughts
Indoors:
Avoid taking baths—take short showers—turn on water only to get wet and lather and then again to rinse off.
Avoid letting the water run while brushing your teeth, washing your face or shaving.
Place a bucket in the shower to catch excess water for watering plants.
Hand wash dishes by filling two containers—one with soapy water and the other with rinse water containing a small amount of chlorine bleach.
Store drinking water in the refrigerator. Do not let the tap run while you are waiting for water to cool.
Operate automatic clothes washers only when they are fully loaded or set the water level for the size of your load.
Outdoors:
A heavy rain eliminates the need for watering your lawn for up to two weeks. Most of the year, lawns only need one inch of water per week.
Check the soil moisture levels with a soil probe, spade or large screwdriver. You don't need to water if the soil is still moist. If your grass springs back when you step on it, it doesn't need water yet.
If your lawn does require watering, do so early in the morning or later in the evening, when temperatures are cooler.
Water in several short sessions rather than one long one, in order for your lawn to better absorb moisture and avoid runoff.
In extreme drought, allow lawns to die in favor of preserving trees and large shrubs.

Thunderstorms
When thunder roars, go indoors. A sturdy building is the safest place to be during a thunderstorm.
If indoors, avoid running water or using landline phones. Electricity can travel through plumbing and phone lines.
Protect your property. Unplug appliances and other electric devices. Secure outside furniture.
If necessary, take shelter in a car with a metal top and sides. Do not touch anything metal.
Be aware of the possibility of flash floods. If a flood does occur, see flood.

Hailstorms
Get inside as soon as bossible, cover your head and neck with your hands while outside.
Avoid windows if possible.
See thunderstorms.

Heat waves
If necessary, take shelter in a car with a metal top and sides. Do not touch anything metal.
Find places with air conditioning. Libraries, shopping malls, and community centers can provide a cool place to take a break from the heat.
If you’re outside, find shade. Wear a hat wide enough to protect your face.
Drink plenty of fluids to stay hydrated. If you or someone you care for is on a special diet, ask a doctor how best to accommodate it.
Do not use electric fans when the temperature outside is more than 95 degrees, as this could increase the risk of heat-related illness. Fans create air flow and a false sense of comfort, but do not reduce body temperature.
Check yourself, family members, and neighbors for signs of heat-related illness.
Signs of Heat Cramps include: Muscle pains or spasms in the stomach, arms, or legs.
What to do: Go to a cooler location. Remove excess clothing. Take sips of cool sports drinks with salt and sugar. Get medical help if cramps last more than an hour.
Signs of Heat Exhastion include: Heavy sweating, paleness, muscle cramps, tiredness, weakness, dizziness, headache, nausea or vomiting, or fainting.
What to do: Go to an air-conditioned place and lie down. Loosen or remove clothing. Take a cool bath. Take sips of cool sports drinks with salt and sugar. Get medical help if symptoms get worse or last more than an hour.
Signs of Heat Stroke include: Extremely high body temperature (above 103 degrees) taken orally; red, hot, and dry skin with no sweat; rapid, strong pulse; dizziness; confusion; or unconsciousness
What to do: Call 911 or get the person to a hospital immediately. Cool down with whatever methods are available until medical help arrives.

Tornadoes
Take additional cover by shielding your head and neck with your arms and putting materials such as furniture and blankets around you.
Do not try to outrun a tornado in a vehicle.
If you are in a car or outdoors and cannot get to a building, cover your head and neck with your arms and cover your body with a coat or blanket, if possible.

Wildfire
If trapped, then call 911 and give your location, but be aware that emergency response could be delayed or impossible. Turn on lights to help rescuers find you.
Wear a facemask to keep harmful particles out of the air you breathe.
If you are not ordered to evacuate but smoky conditions exist, stay inside in a safe location or go to a community building where smoke levels are lower.

Space Weather
Follow energy conservation measures to keep the use of electricity as low as possible, which can help power companies avoid imposing rolling blackouts during periods when the power grid is compromised.
Disconnect electrical appliances if instructed to do so by local officials.
Do not use the telephone unless absolutely necessary, during emergency situations keeping lines open for emergency personnel can improve response.
